book/src/dev/building.md, before:

# Building from Source

Build Matchy from source code.

## Prerequisites

- Rust 1.70 or later
- C compiler (for examples)

## Quick Build

```bash
# Clone
git clone https://github.com/sethhall/matchy.git
cd matchy

# Build
cargo build --release

# Test
cargo test

# Install CLI
cargo install --path .
```

## Build Profiles

### Debug Build

```bash
cargo build
# Output: target/debug/
```

- Fast compilation
- Includes debug symbols
- No optimizations

### Release Build

```bash
cargo build --release
# Output: target/release/
```

- Slow compilation
- Full optimizations
- LTO enabled
- Single codegen unit

## Build Options

```bash
# Check without building
cargo check

# Build with all features
cargo build --all-features

# Build examples
cargo build --examples

# Build documentation
cargo doc --no-deps
```

## C Header Generation

The C header is auto-generated on release builds:

```bash
cargo build --release
# Generates: include/matchy.h
```

## Cross-Compilation

```bash
# Install target
rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu

# Build for target
cargo build --release --target x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

## See Also

- [Development Guide](../development.md)
- [Testing](testing.md)

Commit message:

docs: comprehensive documentation updates and cleanup
- Add matchy extract command documentation

- Add parallel processing, follow mode, and progress reporting to matchy match

- Update CHANGELOG.md with all unreleased changes since v1.0.1

- Reorganize and clean up book structure (removed 24 orphaned files)

- Fix book logo images and move to book/src/images/

- Change book build directory from 'book' to 'html' for clarity

- Update .gitignore for book output directories

book/src/dev/building.md, after:

# Building from Source

Build Matchy from source code.

## Prerequisites

- Rust 1.70 or later
- C compiler (for examples)

## Quick Build

```bash
# Clone
git clone https://github.com/sethhall/matchy.git
cd matchy

# Build
cargo build --release

# Test
cargo test

# Install CLI
cargo install --path .
```

## Build Profiles

### Debug Build

```bash
cargo build
# Output: target/debug/
```

- Fast compilation
- Includes debug symbols
- No optimizations

### Release Build

```bash
cargo build --release
# Output: target/release/
```

- Slow compilation
- Full optimizations
- LTO enabled
- Single codegen unit

## Build Options

```bash
# Check without building
cargo check

# Build with all features
cargo build --all-features

# Build examples
cargo build --examples

# Build documentation
cargo doc --no-deps
```

## C Header Generation

The C header is auto-generated on release builds:

```bash
cargo build --release
# Generates: include/matchy.h
```

## Cross-Compilation

```bash
# Install target
rustup target add x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu

# Build for target
cargo build --release --target x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
```

## Development Tools

Matchy includes development-only tools in the `examples/` directory that are not installed with `cargo install`.

### Updating the Public Suffix List

The TLD matching feature uses a pre-built Aho-Corasick automaton generated from the [Public Suffix List](https://publicsuffix.org). To refresh this data:

```bash
# Download latest PSL and rebuild the automaton
cargo run --example update-psl

# Commit the updated automaton
git add src/data/tld_automaton.ac
git commit -m "Update Public Suffix List"
```

This tool:
- Downloads the latest PSL from publicsuffix.org
- Parses TLD patterns including wildcards
- Handles Unicode TLDs with punycode conversion
- Rebuilds `src/data/tld_automaton.ac`

**Note:** This is only needed when updating TLD patterns. End users never need to run this.

## See Also

- [Development Guide](../development.md)
- [Testing](testing.md)
